you see all these people and all these
websites that have thousands and
thousands of links and they're ranking
on page one of google
and you ask yourself hmm if i want to
rank on page one to google do i really
need thousands of links
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm gonna break down how many links you
actually need to rank on page one of
google
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
as you can see on my screen here i have
the keyword web hosting google it's
getting roughly 18 100 searches a month
in the united states i'm using the
ubersuggest chrome extension which gives
me all this data as well it tells me how
many times i've searched on mobile
devices versus desktop devices the
volume over time cost per click the
demographic information the searcher's
age range gives me all of that as well
as a handful of other keyword
suggestions on the right side and
more metrics on you know on the right
side on how much traffic websites
getting their overall domain authority
or domain score and as you keep going on
and on you'll get more keyword data but
when you look at these sites that are
ranking on page one
and if i look at the first four their
ads godaddy bluehost dreamhost hostgator
all well-known brands then you got pc
mag
hostinger techradar
bluehost cnet godaddy siteground network
solutions and quick sprout those are the
pages that are ranking in the top 10.
so what i decided to do to show you how
many links you really need to rank in
the top 10 was i decided to look up each
of their link counts on ahrefs
so i first started with the first
website which is pc mag as you can see
here
and as you can see as i'm loading up
each of these urls i'm loading up the
link count for that exact url not the
whole site
and some have more some have less
bluehost i couldn't ahrefs wouldn't
fetch how many
links
or show me the links to each url but
there's a lot here you'll see nineteen
thousand
uh 583 922
53 000 to siteground to their home page
network solutions hosting has a thousand
uh quick spot has 700 474
but let's go back and look at them very
carefully
the first one has 949
okay ur rating of 54 domain rating of
91.
then hostinger 88 16 000 links to that
url think about that 16 000 now most of
them are not do follow only four percent
do follow as you can see here 62 or do
follow so you have to look at how many
links are actually followed not just the
total link count
and then if you keep going domain rating
this one 1000
281 links 78 do follow
this one is 19 000 links is a bluehost
home page high domain authority 19 000
links 77
that are do follow right that's still a
lot of links it's over 10 000 that are
due followed and i'm looking at
referring domain names that's not total
number of links that's total number of
unique sites linking
and if you look at this one 583
url rating of 38. this is cnet another
popular website
922 for godaddy
uh siteground 53 000. a lot of do
followed over 89 so you're probably
looking at somewhere over
40 something thousand referring domains
which is a lot
and then you have network solutions
thousand
uh and then quick sprout 474 with 68
percent do follow and this is rank in
the bottom slot of page one
now when you think about this and when
you look at all the data the link counts
are all over the place see as low as 474
and you're seeing as high as 53 000.
now what does this tell you
just because someone has 53 000 links
doesn't mean you need 53 000 links look
this is 53 000 links and it's at the
bottom slot
and this right here is
949 links and it's at the top slot
and if you look at it 62 percent are due
followed so roughly uh two-thirds are
dewfalls you're roughly looking at 600
links
now when you scroll down and you look at
the links okay you'll see quick sprout
funny enough the number 10 listing is
linking to the number one listing
probably not a good idea if you want to
rank higher don't want to really link to
the ones that are above you
it'll just really help them
keep that position
but as you scroll down and you
want to go through the links usually the
ones at the top they're showing you
ahrefs will show you the top hundred for
free
and as you scroll down you'll start
seeing a lot more junk links you know
oral history technology
right they didn't necessarily build this
link it's just
naturally
place or it could be a spam link like if
you look at this
a little bit spammy
um
learn to code okay medium hostgator
awards
high techies
and if you keep scrolling you're going
to start seeing more
spammy links it doesn't mean that
they're trying to
do smammy stuff it's just scraper sites
just tend to pick up a lot of these urls
here's example domains.byu.edu
leaving a university
all right so here's the example of
a link that really isn't high quality i
know it's an edu site but this is not
high quality url's a little bit spammy
leaving byu domains and
hosting all right you can say it's not
too bad but nonetheless it's not like
the best link out there
and as you continue going down this
one's in japanese
young startups okay
web design tuts plus
this one different language
this one again different language no
followed
and when you look at the pc mag okay
they don't have too many bad links but
if i kept going through more than the
top hundred you'll end up seeing them in
which there's a lot more not necessarily
spammy links but what i mean well and
spammy is probably the wrong word to use
what i mean is there's a lot of websites
that scrape the sites linking to you and
they end up counting as links you can
see it more in the quick sprawl example
here
so they got some solid links here look
this is a rss feed
not really a solid link
and if you scroll down and if i keep
scrolling down
keep in mind they have a lot less links
in the pc mag so it's easier to see
insta paper
all right let's click on this insta
paper
article
targeted laser
this is just pulling like literally this
is just pulling from a rss feed here not
really a high quality link there
and if you keep going look rss mix
um
that one's not good because rss
feed
let's see
10 key elements that one's not bad
but if as i start scrolling
this is a blogger site bloggers not that
great
the next scoop
i believe this is a rss site or a
scraper site
actually you know this is a legitimate
site
um blogging another
feed link
let's see this is no followed this may
be a scraper site
tips on finding variable valuable web
hosting
small business yahoo category
look at the domain name doesn't seem
that great a little spammy scrapy
if i go to welcome to our blog best side
of trading unbiased trading web hosting
marketing
it's just random they don't even have a
lot of text it looks like a scraper site
or a junk site
the point i'm trying to make is if you
keep going through this you'll see more
and more of them right here's another
example search page
a different language
this one is
let's see
blogspot right blogspot bloggers all
those they're not really high quality
the point i'm trying to make is the the
more lower you go the more of these
scraper sites and junk links that you'll
see
so typically what we're seeing is
whatever the number that you're seeing
in referring domain names
usually if you end up building
you know a third to fourth even a fifth
of the links that are reported
you can do quite well and the key if you
want to rank is you don't have to build
a lot of links you want to build
legitimate links you don't want to pay
for them you don't want to use anything
that's black hat you want natural good
links do your outreach
look for don't
don't focus too much on domain rating or
domain authority or anything like that
just focus on building legitimate high
quality links
and
do it in a very very slow pace and i
know that may sound crazy you're
thinking slow pace if i need all these
links on how to keep building well if
you build too fast what you'll find is
you're going to have to build too many
links like some of these sites right
look at this hostinger that's 16 000
links surely four percent of our do
follow but a lot of the sites that are
ranking
that are trying to rank that just build
too many links too fast you get caught
in this rat race where if you build too
many links too fast it's unnatural the
search engines know it and you're not
going to rank that highly you need to
slow it down less is actually better
it's like those social profiles that
have hundreds and thousands of followers
but no one really engages it's because
they have a lot of fake followers if you
build quote unquote unnatural links or
you're buying them what you'll find is
your rankings won't be as great compared
to if you just focus on highly relevant
articles that are slow and steady the
other thing that most people don't talk
about is click through rate the reason
that some of the sites that rank at the
top that are higher is because i have a
way higher click-through rate you're
going to get way more clicks if you have
the best web hosting services of 2020
which reviews
a lot of the websites that are ranking
in the top 10
right and it's very educational and
resource based
versus if you're someone like bluehost
saying bluehost the best hosting 2020
and they're pretty much promoting their
own services right same with godaddy
hosting secure fast reliable solutions
so when you're pitching one solution
versus something that's a review more
educational you'll find that it tends to
be easier to rank and you don't have to
build as many links so you don't just
need to focus on how many links you're
getting but you also need to optimize
for click-throughs and anything that is
resourceful educational
helpful tends to also rank better so
when you're doing your backlink research
whether using ubersuggest or whether
using moz or ahrefs or semrush to look
up link counts remember whatever people
have a lot of those links are scraper
sites spammy links it's not that these
sites are building spammy links it's
that you naturally get spammy links
coming to you when you've been on the
web for so long
if you build one third to one-fifth of
the links that you're seeing and you do
it slow and steady and you optimize for
click-through rate you can outrank many
other people as well
if you enjoyed this video if you have
any questions on how many links you
really need leave a comment below i'll
do my best to answer it and help you out
make sure you subscribe to this channel
like the video share it tell the people
about it thank you for watching